[Music]
in Papua New Guinea the bowerbird has
lovingly rebuilt and redecorated his
Bower another visitor this time it's a
female this is just where he wants her
time to begin the show first he explains
his pupils alternately
[Music]
it's an oddly mesmerizing display
a spot of limbering up accompanied by a
weird and wheezy call from deep in his
throat now it's time for his grand
performance he waves his wind like a
Matadors cape he appears to be
transfixed this is certainly eye
catching but it seems he needs to do
more generously she drops him a hint
it's the bird equivalent of a bouquet of
flowers it's all going so well it's time
to get physical with a few head bugs to
her chest one final flourish to cap
weeks of effort but something's wrong
his rival is back and at the worst
possible moment what should he do
for the female the moment has gone
sometimes whatever you do things just
don't work out
hermit crabs use abandoned seashells as
mobile homes as a crab grows its shell
becomes an ever tighter fit so
eventually a crab needs to move in to a
bigger one suitable empty shells are few
and far between and this one is far too
spacious for this crab but instead of
continuing its search this small crab
settles down to wait
[Music]
other crabs also looking to upgrade to a
bigger home soon gather whenever a shell
washes ashore unfortunately the new
shell is too big for them to despite
that the gathering crabs begin to
measure each other up and then they do
something really rather extraordinary
they arrange themselves into an orderly
queue the biggest of the front smallest
at the back they're lining up with one
aim to exchange properties but none of
the crabs can make a move because the
chain is not yet complete they're all
waiting for the right-sized crab to come
along and this is it
[Music]
the latest arrival pushes to the head of
the queue at first the chain falls apart
as it reforms the small crab finally
makes it smooth and takes its place at
the end of the line after a close
inspection the big crab moves in this
triggers a chain reaction each crab
hurriedly moves into the shell vacated
by the crab ahead of it in the line just
as the small crab attempts to move into
its new home the fresh arrival muscles
in
[Music]
to be left without a shell is a death
sentence
a naked crab will quickly cook under the
intense tropical Sun
[Music]
but after all the swapping there is
still one shell left sadly it's no
bigger than this small crabs original
shell and worse it's got a hole in it
[Music]
but even a bad shell is better than
being homeless
[Music]
mantids will eat anything that moves
including other mountains
[Music]
time to leave this tiny insect is now
open to attack from predators lurking in
the undergrowth whether an individual
mantis survives or not is partly a
matter of chance
whether it's spotted by a predator
[Music]
whether it turns right or left so far
it's luck as held but this hungry
jumping spider is still in pursuit a
mantis is born with exceptional eyesight
but the spiders is even better although
this young mantis can't yet fly its long
forelegs evolved to catch prey give it
reach
[Music]
there seems to be no escape but this
mantis has a surprising line in
self-defense kungfu praying mantis style
[Music]
of course it's all Bluff trying to look
bigger and confuse its enemy but it's
got away with it
[Music]
just staying alive for its first few
hours is a significant accomplishment
for a newly hatched insects but there's
still a long way to go with a bit of
luck in two months time it will be as
big and beautiful as this orchid Mantid
[Music]
or maybe not after all mantids are
cannibals
[Music]
[Applause]
the perfect launch
and a control drop this is as good a
descent as it's possible to make
[Music]
it's parents are there to meet it
a little dazed
perhaps but all in one piece one Gosling
at least hasn't made it
[Music]
and this chick appears to be in a bad
way
[Music]
at last it responds to its mother's
calls the resilience of a barnacle goose
chip that is extraordinary but there are
still chicks unaccounted for somewhere
amongst the rubble
[Music]
the parents can't risk searching because
they need to lead their two survivors
away quickly before predators arrive
a third one has made it
but it needs to catch up
[Music]
reunited
three out of five chicks have made it
without such a dramatic start in life
it's unlikely any of you would have even
got this far for kangaroos the greatest
challenges come from within their own
society for a male there's only really
one key lesson to learn in his life they
get to the top he must become a fighter
the battles are so brutal the males need
years of training to prepare the effort
is worth it because a champion fighter
wins privileged access to the females
this meadow
is a boot camp for aspiring boxers
training starts as soon as a youngster
is out of the pouch its mother is a
handy opponent for a young Joey learning
the basics
but he soon off in search of more
sparring partners the other grown-ups
are not so tolerant of this lightweight
[Music]
this male alone
rules the meadow
[Music]
he stands eight feet tall his muscles
hardened by years of sparring
today a challenger for his title has
come forward full-blown fights are so
dangerous they're not entered into
lightly
but when two males square up it's time
to clear the arena
anything goes in these power struggles I
doubting is entirely within the rules
so is kicking below the belt
the dominant male skill is already
telling
[Music]
the stakes are high they risk broken
bones and internal injuries
certainly it's all over the champion has
beaten off the Challenger at least for
now
[Music]